This directory contains localization files. tek-steamclient uses GNU gettext for localization, which has [comprehensive documentation](https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/gettext.html), but in my opinion it's too bloated and has very weak separation of information for developers vs for translators, so here's my own quick recap:
- If you want to make a translation, create a copy of `tek-steamclient.pot`, rename it to `{lang identifier}.po` (e.g. `ru.po` for Russian) and fill in the data in its header. You can look at `ru.po` itself as an example, this applies to further steps as well.
- Using GUI tools like [poedit](https://poedit.net/) can make your job much easier and automate some of the steps described later.
- If you edit the PO file manually via a text editor, every `msgid` entry contains original English string, which must be kept as-is. It is followed by `msgstr ""`, which is where you write your translation for that string. Both msgids and msgstrs can span multiple lines in the file, in the program these lines will just be concatenated as a single string.
- You don't necessarily have to translate everything, you may keep some msgstrs empty, and these strings just won't be translated, for example if that phrase cannot be properly translated to your language, or it's just commonly accepted among your people to use it in English.
- Most strings contain so-called escape sequences, starting with a backslash (`\`). They are not displayed in the program as you see them and instead have some special meaning. The most common one you'll encounter is `\n`, which indicates a newline, i.e. everything after it will be displayed on the next line after the text before it. You may freely move them in your translations as you deem necessary.
- A lot of strings are format strings and have format placeholders, which is a percent sign(`%`) followed by some combination of characters, which is where the program dynamically inserts some data. In tek-steamclient, all strings containing placeholders have a comment explaining what kind of data is inserted where. To simplify matters, `%s` is a text string, and all other kinds may be assumed to be some sort of number. There's also its own escape sequence, `%%`, which is displayed in the program just as a single percent sign. You can move these placeholders around in your translation, but you cannot remove them. If you change the order in which they appear in the string, you **must** place `{index}$` sequence after percent sign in all affected placeholders, where {index} is the index number of that placeholder in the original English string, starting with 1, e.g. if the msgid is `"%s contains %.2f"`, and you swap the %s and %d in your translation, end result will look like `"%2$.2f содержит %1$s"`
- Once you've finished your translation, you can compile to the binary MO format via your GUI tool or `msgfmt` command-line utility, and test it by placing into correct location for localization files, which is `%appdata%\tek-steamclient\locale\{lang identifier}\LC_MESSAGES\tek-steamclient.mo` (for tek-sc-cli, other apps utilizing tek-steamclient may choose different locations) on Windows or `/usr/share/locale/{lang identifier}/LC_MESSAGES/tek-steamclient.mo` on Linux. It will be loaded automatically if your OS language is set to the language you're translating to, or you can force it to be loaded by setting `LANG` environment variable to `{lang_identifier}.UTF-8`
- To submit translation to this repository, create a pull request adding your PO file to this directory, or send it to me by some other means so I upload it on your behalf.
